---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Be Smart
date: 2017-09-07 
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Asking Question
---
People learn knowledge by exchanging information, and questioning is the most important component of the process. So, it is clear that asking smart questions is more efficient and effective compared to asking not so smart question. As a software engineer, knowing how to ask smart questions is also a really important skill. So, after reading the “How to ask questions the smart way” guideline by Eric Raymond. And to test the reading in experience, I went to Stack Overflow and found a smart question and a not so smart question. 
Let start off with the easy one, the not so smart question, it was easy to find this kind of question, since Stack Overflow is full of them. The title of the question is “Why do I not see the button? Help me”, and the author didn’t even put any tag on the question. When I first saw the question, I was confused by the title in many levels due to the lack of information. The title should give out information of the problem and attract people, which in this case failed totally. Then, the description is also just another sentence “Why are my Buttons like that?” with an image of a button. At this point, I am even more confused, because now I don’t what is the real question. So, is the button not showing up or is the button did not come out the way he wanted? Again, the lack of information of the problem in the description area combine with the title made it almost impossible for an answer. But there was one nice guy who commented “How your button should look like ?”, and a comment from an admin providing links to how to ask a good question. This is a very extreme case of a not so smart question, and not providing enough information could cause a chain of question comments asking for more details.  
After losing hope in humanity, let’s look at a smart question to regain the light. The title was “Should I avoid the use of set(Preferred|Maximum|Minimum)Size methods in Java Swing?”. The title has good amount of detail needed, it tells you the language, the method and what he wants to do with it. Then in the description area, he has about half page of information on the full syntax to the method he is referring to and also few detailed questions. Best of all, he wrote “I have searched the web a little bit, but I haven't found any comprehensive analysis of the subject.”, which means he did some research before asking this question that shows he is not lazy, and the last line is “I hope to have been clear.” to show politeness. But his questions and details were very clear, no comment under asking for more detail. There were many answers and people discussing under the comment session, different people are using different source contributing to the topic. It is very educational just by reading discussing, it really the effort behind each answer. Asking smart questions not only benefit the asker and the hacker, but also other people will search up the question and find it.  
